we have our NGO reporter of course Dave
Robbins with us Dave welcome to MX TV
mate thanks for having me Brendan had
much problem with spark plugs in your
day now actually ride my bike rather let
it sit in the shed like human alright
thanks mate thanks very much Joel Smits
was a big factor in the Australian for
day but so was a dust too wasn't it back
earlier in the year and obviously down
in Victoria we had no rain at all like
all the rain was going up northern New
South Wales and Brisbane those guys were
right in mud leading up to it but yeah
we just told us to enjoy them he
certainly was and we had a lot of
international flavor as well I think
Antonia mio yep out there on the
husqvarna 125 nonetheless as well I
think it what was it at 140 I think was
bought out yeah apparently brought out
to like a 144 CC and didn't sound as
high pitched as a normal 125 so it
definitely had something into it yeah
yeah I let me tell you everybody I spoke
to that went and saw the Australian for
date were just raving about how he just
had that thing pinned everywhere well
that's that his corner speed was
unbelievable and if you didn't crash so
much you probably would have fetched a
little bit higher in the result and of
course Josh Smith see a four-time world
motocross rider coming out riding for
BMW that's caused quite a quite a bit of
a stir with everybody out there how did
you find in writing I don't be so smooth
on the bike I mean he's not going to be
for time will tip for nothing on it was
the first time the BMW had been on
Australian soil and actually raced in
something like that so that was good to
see and created a lot of interest but
our Australian guys on the 450s that
they were just you know class above that
as well so yeah and I'd imagine that you
know terrain here is a lot different
we're at home and I'll tell you what we
really are starting to produce some
great enduro riders only yeah I'm
certainly I and the more international
guys we can get out and only yeah makes
our guys here train that little bit
harder again and you know they don't
want to see the trophy going back to
where home is Europe and Oliver so yeah
yes actually especially they can use
dealing this now what the other one mate
Blake or what a fantastic result for him
I think he finished somewhere around
tightly fought yeah fantastic result for
you know big fellow like him what he is
I mean that's that's his home ground
around that area so he's ridden those
tracks and
had plenty Victorian enduros around that
area okay but yeah I mean you still got
to hang on to it for four days and yeah
he didn't let the pressure come to him
when when it when it did and um yeah you
go Road very well and of course gh out
honda rider peter boyle fantastic job by
him coming was good yeah he did on the
251 the 250 class pretty easily i think
and no uncle but believe her laid-back
he was some of the guys at the controls
you know he'd rock up and he'd have to
take he's he's walking out of his you
know so really i pod thing out and i
could listen to yeah he was just
cruising along and just just you know
enjoyed it for four days and obviously
won the class it's not a bad effort is
it go out and you have a trail ride and
come back with the trophy that's it not
bad no don't do that yeah and of course
the old man of this book cut and he'd a
fantastic job for him as well just
behind john smith's he's got to be happy
with that I think he's pretty wrapped
yeah the last couple of years Kirk's
gone down to the 125 class or not gone
down but yeah has written the 125 class
yep and this year yes stepped up a
little bit to the to the 250 and yeah
cleaned up pretty easy i think so yeah
and what do you got to say about ben
grabham is won't let any inside cuz i
know he's trying really hard but she did
finish a little bit further down the
tail down didn't you yeah a time it's
just all those tests i mean the the way
the conditions were everything to doubt
pretty badly i think and you could get a
clean run chill or you know you didn't
was that dusty and you know if you did
catch riders or you know you could throw
it away pretty easily so when everyone
did well to hang on to it and hollister
seemed to do it a little bit better than
everyone else it certainly it there were
what was your highlight for the four
days is there any one particular test
because i know they are running tests
forwards and backwards weren't they yeah
they were like in the morning you dried
out and then you know do your trail
sections and then i'm in the afternoon
you do the test in Reverse but i was
down there and yeah it didn't look all
that excited merely because you know
we've just 11 dusty rut all the way
around it pretty much but I mean
everyone had to write it and it's the
same for everyone but term yeah that's
what's injury is all about made it's not
made across groomed beautiful tracks
good writing it's a bit of a shame that
that area is normally you know beautiful
and green but um just the way it was
that you know
that you couldn't do anything about it
yeah the dry weather really sort of
hampered at a bit and as you said
there's not much now the final motocross
of the day obviously it's a big crowd
draw yep you know every year we have the
Australian for down zero it draws a lot
of crowd everyone was there to watch
jaws mix do well yeah but there were
some people that really pulled out some
good one wasn't it yeah lege held off
spits for the file motto and that would
that was pretty good to see I mean you
know if you got a four-time world
champion handing me around the track you
know you're going to be under pressure
but AJ did very well and Android on the
Lord to cuz Joel wasn't letting go
either yeah no II did hard at it he did
let go at the end when he's yeah that's
right yeah that was good it always does
I mean you see the guys for four day or
three days they're at an abortion really
a lot of people don't get to see him so
the final Moto's their their chance to
display what sort of skills they have
when you know a lot of people do seem
but it was a great event put on by the
War Eagle motorcycle club they do a
fantastic effort to get it as good as
they could really well they do a good
job those guys they did it back in 04 I
think it was that's right similar sort
of area and yeah they know what to do
and they get the job done yeah well Dave
one thing about the dust all that
hampered in the whole four days was as a
great leading for the sixth day wasn't
it was pretty much identical conditions
apart from the heat I mean over in
Greece it was 3735 some days but if you
look at some of the photos exactly the
same as what the four-day well Desai one
yeah the guys that learn how to ride the
dust and everything back here obviously
did well over 26 day now we did say some
of the odds II did quite well so we
caught up with a couple of them straight
after the final moto to see what they
had to say thought oh right coming into
the race at any obviously on day 10 I
crushed my foot and lost a fair bit of
time and a special test but I pushed on
got my foot reviewed each day and the
actual race has been going okay since
then pretty consistent it didn't really
achieve the goals I wanted to I was
hoping for a top five in class was just
off that but I'm outrider would have
liked to be a bit higher but you know
14th probably isn't too bad with the
field we had so yeah just try and carry
it on into the national with an arm
hopefully pick up a bit of speed and get
towards the front oh yeah well I'd
actually turned into a one-day again
this year I was very much my fault this
year though i drede my bike in a river
so yeah unfortunately it was nearly a
two day one so I had a good time until
then but didn't quite make it just all
about riding whether it be in the bush
or on the track I just want to have a
lot more time on the bike yeah i mean
it's it's always a good thing i was just
just a shame that my whole full day
wasn't like that last final moto so you
know but it felt good to finish on a
good note finish strong like that it
wasn't so much joel it was the fact that
last year I had David Knight behind me
exactly the same sort of situation and
and I threw it away so that was running
through my mind more than anything but
you know when Joel Joel Smith's five
times world motocross champion so he
knows how to ride he knows how to push
and he was two for me he gave me a lot
of respect by not trying to take me out
or do a move on me he was trying to find
the line but it's very one line out
there so it worked to my advantage I had
a awesome run on the final moto wasn't
when I planned I don't think anything
anyone can plan for it was you know
really obviously really dusty and I had
a little fall start and I didn't get the
best of starts either and I hadn't had a
really good buffer for outright so in on
AJ so I just SAT back a bit took my time
it gives me a good confidence boost and
I sort of coming I knew I could win but
you know four days a long time so you
don't really know to lend you get the
checkered flag at the final moto so it's
going to be good AJ road really good
just in so he's gonna be hard to beat
the rest of you and it's going to be a
really good year
you